---
title: 'Stable Baselines 3 Tutorial (Computerized Adaptive Testing)'
date: 2023-12-26
permalink: /posts/2023/12/blog-post-6/
tags:
  - Reinforcement Learning
  - Stable Baselines 3
  - Computerized Adaptive Testing 
  - Educational Data Mining 
---

The goal of this blog is to present a tutorial on [Stable Baselines 3](https://stable-baselines3.readthedocs.io/en/master/), a popular Reinforcement Learning library with focus on implementing a custom environment and a custom policy. We will first describe our problem statement, discuss the MDP (Markov Decision Process), discuss the algorithms - [PPO](https://openai.com/research/openai-baselines-ppo), custom feature extractor PPO and custom policy (lstm bilinear policy with PPO). 

## Problem Statement 

In the realm of computer science education, evaluating coding homework poses unique challenges that traditional methods struggle to address. Auto-grading systems, which automatically assess correctness and functionality using test cases, offer a valuable solution. However, as the complexity of coding assignments grows, the sheer volume of test cases can hamper system efficiency. Inspired by Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT), which optimizes assessments based on prior responses, we aim to develop a policy that selects a minimal yet effective set of test cases, ensuring swift and accurate evaluations for both students and instructors.

## Related Work (Item Response Theory)

In Computerized Adaptive Testing (CAT), there are four essential components:

1. **Knowledge Level Estimator:** Assesses the student's current knowledge based on their responses to previously selected items.
2. **Response Model:** Estimates the likelihood of a student answering a specific item correctly using the current knowledge level and item features.
3. **Pool of Available Items:** A collection of test items from which the adaptive system selects questions.
4. **Item Selection Algorithm:** Chooses the next most informative item based on the response model output.

The widely used Item-Response-Theory (IRT) model, specifically the simplest form (1PL), is often employed. In its basic form, the 1PL model is defined as:

\[ P(Y_{i, j} = 1) = \sigma(\theta_j - b_i) \]

Here, \( \theta_j \) represents the student's knowledge level, and \( b_i \) is the difficulty of item \( i \).

## MDP Formulation